# The Incredible Adventures of Ultra Dotman #277: Enter The Third Dimension
For the first time in over 10 years, Ultra Dotman is back and better than ever! In this installment, our titular hero is forced into the _third dimension_ to battle the infinite black void concocted by the forces of evil.

# ultradotman: a simulation template
Meanwhile, in the real world, groups of people must work together to decide on the types of ships to deploy for transporting cargo or zoning decisions for a new section of a city. These people, who are not superheroes, tend toward the solutions which adhere most to their expertise. The real estate developer will make decisions to maximize their profits, the environmental protectionist wants to minimize emissions, the humble NIMBY would like everything to stay the same. Every decision is accompanied by downsides, so it would be convenient if there was a way to explore these decisions as thoroughly as possible before you're 6 months and $40 million into a project.

That's where ultradotman, the software, comes in. When it's not being used to tell the greatest story ever told, UDM functions as a template for simulations that allow users to make design decisions and see the perfomance characteristics of their decisions on multiple axes. If you're designing a car, for example, the decisions may be engine type, shape of the car, and which safety features to include; the performance characterists might be cost, weight, and fuel efficiency. Giving The Stakeholders™ multiple axes with which to evaluate their performance has the potential for two things:
1. discovering unintended consequences of a decision before it's too late.
2. revealing the hidden biases and priorities of others.

## Internal Structure
- **User input.** The user sets some of the initial conditions for the simulation. In UDM, the user chooses the red, blue, and green values of Dotman, but does not choose his shape, his position, or the color of the background. This has a front end component, where the user can manipulate sliders, buttons, text fields, etc. which sends information on the state of those UI elements to a backend component which creates the input for the
- **Simulation.** This takes the initial conditions, applies some arbitrary model, and measures the desired performance characterists. In this template, there is nothing to simulate—it just take the inputs directly and set the color of Dotman—so the template just does the calculations of the "performance characteristics," which in this case are hue, saturation, and value. This is only a back end element; to connect to the front end, this template uses a
- **Renderer.** This creates a visual representation of the simulation. In this template, the HSV values generated by the simulation are used to set the diffuse color of the sphere. That's all well and good, but if the user wants to see how their results compare to previous results, you'll need to do some
- **Analysis.** This takes the performance characteristics and produces human-readable output. This template takes information directly from the simulation and projects it onto a 2D graph, giving the user the choice of x- and y- axis. In a more complicated simulation, the information provided by the simulation may require additional processing. In any case, analysis presented to the user may inform further **user input.**